Let's now go back to our main project here by again changing to index.html. Now there,
we want to position this tooltip here.
If I click on more info, I don't want to render it is here at the bottom,
instead it would be nice to kind of position it near this element. To do that, we need to tap into Javascript,
into the app.js file and there, work on the positioning with some of the properties and tools we now
learned about.
It's in the place where we create the tooltip,
so therefore inside of the tooltip class in the create method where we can configure it and where we
can position it. To position that tooltip, we also need to know where the host element, so the element
that is responsible for showing that tooltip, lives in.
So in the end, where this project item, where we clicked on more info, where this can be found
and for that on the tooltip when we create it here in the constructor, I expect one extra argument,
I also want to get the host element ID here so that I can actually pass this to super host element
ID because in that component which is our base class, we expect that host element ID
and then we use it to select that host element and store it in a
this host element property which we'll of course therefore can then also access from our subclass
because we can access any property which we have in a base class or therefore in a prototype
also from a subclass or an object using that prototype and hence here in tooltip, we now pass this
on to our base class component and therefore we'll have access to this host element property.
So what can we do with that?
Well here in create where we create our tooltip element, before we add the event listeners maybe, let's console
log this host element and then getBoundingClientRect, this method we saw earlier before just to see
whether that all works and where we can get that information about that host element positioning and so
on.
So now to test this, we just need to make sure that we actually do get a host element ID here on the
constructor of tooltip because at the moment, we're expecting this but we're not sending this when we
create a tooltip.
So here in project item where I create a new tooltip as a third argument to the tooltip constructor, we
should now forward the ID of this project which we can get under this ID, that's the property of
this project which holds the ID of that project and with that if we go back and reload, let's click
on more info and indeed we get our object here and there we get the coordinates of this project
DOM node and its size and width. The tooltip now also is created here based on the logic we have in
that component class where we now use the host element now that we got it to insert our tooltip there
and whilst this doesn't look too bad, it's not exactly how I want to position this, also because I don't
want this to grow and shrink when I add a tooltip but we'll come back to that. For now let's focus on
the coordinates and there we see to the left,
we have 63 pixels in the end here, to the excuse me to the left, to the top it's 161
and the exact values here are of course not values I set up like this in the app.css
file, instead
that depends on how the browser renders this from top to bottom, on system specific settings, you might have
for example regarding the font size because I'm using rem in here to set my sizes and hence these are the
calculated values which are of course exactly the values I'm interested in because I want to have the current
position I have on the screen to position this tooltip.
So now back in the script, we can position this tooltip in the tooltip create method here with some information
from that bounding client rect or to also practice with some of the other properties I showed you,
with some information from those properties.
So for example I am interested in the host element position left and I'll name the constant like this
therefore and we get this by accessing this host element and then offsetLeft.
Remember that's the distance from the start of our coordinate system on the page to the leftmost
point of our element.
Now I also want to get the host element position top and this can be fetched with this host element
offsetTop.
So now I know the x and y coordinates of my element,
so the top left corner of the host elements so to say, which coordinates this top left corner has. Now
I also need the height because I want to position the tooltip, at the end at the bottom of this element
and not in the top left corner. So I can get my host el height here with this host element and now the height
is the client height,
that's the height of the content,
I could also get offsetHeight to get the full height including any borders but here I have no borders
so that should be the same. With that information, we can try positioning our tooltip, for that let's
calculate an x and a y position for the tooltip.
x could be the host el position left and then maybe plus 20 pixels,
and if you work with values here, these are now always pixels because what you fetch here are also
pixels and let's get a y coordinate
and here I want to use my host element position top, so the position of my top border in the coordinate
system so to say and to that, I want to add the height.
Now important, when I add something to that since my coordinate system starts in the top left corner,
we push elements further down.
So if I have the coordinate of my mouse cursor here and then I add 100 to that and we render an
element at that new position, it will be rendered 100 pixels down from that point because the coordinate
system goes from top left to bottom right basically, that's how the browser lays out the web page and
that's how you have to think about that,
so we have to add to height here to go down on the page. Now I'll actually then deduct 10 pixels to not go down
the entire height but only height - 10 basically
and now let's try out these coordinates for rendering tooltip. Now to position an element, you don't do this
by accessing tooltip element and then offsetTop and setting this equal to a value. All these top and
left coordinates are just read-only values, if you want to assign a new value, you do that with CSS
instead.
So here we can access the style property of the tooltip element and then we can set left equal to x
and now important, really important and
a common mistake, if you're assigning a style and we need to do that here as explained, it's not enough
to just set this equal to some number which is in the end what we have here in x and y but you need to set
it up as you would write it in CSS code which means if you work with pixels here, you have to
add px after the value.
So here in app.js, I need to add +px, so we in the end set this to a string which is now made up
of my number and pixels and therefore this gives me something like 500px,
just an example and we do the same for tooltip elements style top and set this to y + px. If we now
do that and we save this, let's reload and click on more info and you will see no difference and
the reason for that is that we can set left and top but due to the way CSS works and you can't magically
change this with Javascript which is good,
you also first of all need to set one other style on the tooltip element,
you need to set the position style to absolute and then you can really position the element in the absolute
coordinate system on the screen,
otherwise it's always positioned relative in the document flow,
this is how the browser and CSS works.
So now by setting position to absolute, we can make that work and now if we reload, indeed you see now
the box doesn't grow anymore and we render the tooltip in this position.
Now that's great,
you will encounter a strange behavior if you now scroll to the bottom
project in the first box and you click on more info here, you see the tooltip is totally in the wrong
position now,
now what could be the reason for that?
Well if we take a closer look and we scroll this element down again, I would say this tooltip is roughly
in the same position as the tooltip is here for the first element, just ignoring that we scrolled it.
So the scroll distance here,
that's the problem.
It's not taken into account here when we calculate our top and leftmost position and indeed that is
what's happening, when we get coordinates of an element, these coordinates ignore whether the element has
been scrolled somewhere or not.
Now to include the scrolling information, we just have to find out by how far we scroll the content in
this box and we of course can find out how far we scrolled it,
I showed you how that works.
So we can get our parent element scrolling or however you want to name it by reaching out to this host
element, then to the parent element of that to get the entire box, the entire unordered list and not just
the single project item and then the scrollTop property.
Remember, this tells you by how far you scrolled in that container and in the end, this parent element scrolling,
that is something we have to deduct from our calculation here,
so we have to deduct it from there so that we move the tooltip up a bit and don't position it at the
original position or the original coordinates of that element
but the actual position which is adjusted by the amount of scrolling we did basically.
So now by deducting this, if we reload again and I scroll up this box here, this project that and I click
on more info,
now this is in the right position.
Now it's not sticky
if you scrolled, that would be a bit more advanced, you would have to set up event listeners, listen to scrolling
and I will dive into event listeners and so on
in the events module where we can learn way more about event listeners
but for now, this is not the focus,
the important thing here is that we are able to now position this correctly with the help of the coordinates
we're getting and with the help of the width and the scrolling we're getting.